WiggumResearch
Here is my idea for a side-project to continue work on later:
"Write a reseach article that details this work.  We executed this experimental design methodology, and compare and contrast the results at each layer and stage.  What are our findings?  Include figures that explain the experimental design and method.  Include figures that provide mechanistic overviews of the Tier 1 and Tier 2 systems, highlighting any identified differences.  Expound on the potential utility in adaptive feature integration given the differences between the official and the native Tier 1 ralph-loop, and the Tier 2 Decompose tools.  Are these both viable systems for finding, analyzing, extracting and integrating open-source tool capabilities into a native ClaudeCode/Jarvis ecosystem?"

We are essentially building things to build things which build things, and then comparing those things.
Tier 1 - Ralph Wiggum Loop system, which then builds the Tier 2 system.  This demonstrates self-checking, self-validating, recrusive development, semi-autonomous system (in the case of the Claude Official ralph-loop, the system cannot be invoked in an autonomous say, while the Jarvis-native ralph-loop can be invoked by Jarvis autonomously as part of its own task planning)
Tier 2 is the Decompose Tool system, which then builds the Tier 3 system.  This demonstrates a reverse-engineering system which can analyze, deconstruct, integrate and validate Tier 3 systems, expanding the functionality of the Jarvis/ClaudeCode tool kit and ecosystem.
Tier 3 can be any existing and open source ClaudeCode system (e.g. plugins, skills, commands, agents, MCPs, etc) which are demonstrably functional in an official ClaudeCode release environment.  Theoretically, even if an existing tool is lacking in functionality or is "buggy", the Tier 2 Decompose system may be able to repair, restore, or extend the original Tier 3 system's capabilities.

What is especially clever about this is that we are here testing the ability of using a Tier 1 -> Tier 2 workkflow to find and integrate functionality from Tier 3 systems into the user's ClaudeCode tool kit and environment.  Moreover, we make user of the Official ralph-wiggam Tier 1 system to build an official-built Tier 2 Decompose system, which in turn is used to build a Tier 1 Jarvis-native version of the ralph-loop tool functionalities.  This in turn is used to build a native-builts Tier 2 Decompose system.  Each Tier 2 system (official-built and native-built) is then independently invoked to reverse engineer and integrate the example-skill plugin from the ClaudeCode official plugin marketplace.  Its a Wiggumception.  The ralph-loop system together with the decompose system can iteratively identify new functionalities of external systems, reverse-engineer them, and integrate them back into the user's ClaudeCode environment. 

Jarvis, I want you to do the following now, and we'll hold off on additional research and writing until a later time:
1) Thoroughly reflect and reason through what we have done in building these Tier 1 and Tier 2 systems. Consider every type of data that might be valuable in providing a full resaerch communication on the process and its products.
2) Scrape all of the conversation history to gather all of the data we need, and output these data into files inside 'Jarvis/projects/project-aion/reports/ralph-loop-experiment'.
3) Review the 'Jarvis/projects/project-aion/reports/ralph-loop-experiment/RESEARCH-REPORT.md' and the above summaries, and the scraped data.  Use these together to generate a rough-draft first pass research article, complete with figures, in the style and format of a peer-reviewed scientific journal article.
4) Create a 'further plans' document that includes additional research work we could do later, notable gaps in the paper itself (like, we haven't really drawn any conclusions yet), and other suggestions for improving the research and the paper.  For example, if we tested this out on several more Tier 3 integrations and found a realy consistent reduction in code, reduction in token usage, spontaneous inclusion of complementary features de novo, spontaneous or permission-gated merging with complimentary pre-existing systems in the ClaudeCode ecosystem, and etc, then there would really be something to publicize, I think, perhaps. 




Key Session Discovery:
ClaudeCode autonomy and self-initiation/self-directedness is to a large extent facilitated by the existence of Skills.  Skills are documents which can basically be 'executed' by ClaudeCode (e.g. Jarvis Agent) that give it the instructions (and in effect the permissions) needed to execute 'slash-commands'.  ClaudeCode can already run in a 'bypass permissions' mode, which allows it to continue through longer sequences of task instructions, including sending bash commands to its terminal, but there are a series of native 'slash-commands' which it cannot autonomously execute.  These include many useful session management tools, tools to modify agent workflows, and etc.  These commands can be invoked autonomously by claudeCode IF there are defined skills that provide the instructions needed to integrated them into an agentic workflow (aka ToDo list). Furthermore, these Skills can instruct the execution of scripts, or the invocation of other tools like agents, giving ClaudeCode a powerful and flexible framework for self-initialization.  In simple terms:
 - Skills: Invoke slash-commands, and other available tools like agents, scripts, custom protocols.  The ClaudeCode agent can elect to leverage skills as it sees fit to accomplish the task at hand.  The Skill is a markdown document.
 - Commands: Normally only invoked by user input, these slash-commands include name different tools ranging from session management to invoking a behavior.
 - Scripts: generally a bash, shell, or python script which lends a much-needed degree of replicability, stability, and standardization to stages and components of more complex Skills or Commands.  Can be triggered by either, as instructed.
 - Agents: Sits somewhere between Skills and Commands, Agents are also a markdown document, but when launched by ClaudeCode are run in a sub-terminal environment with its own disposable context window and history.  They can be created with highly specific task parameters, pointed to specific tools, gated from certain commands or behaviors, and chained together to make larger Workflows.
 - Workflows: Not 100% sure how these work or how they are invoked.
 - Hooks: The scripts are the key to triggering the execution of Skills and other tools on the basis of certain Event occurrances.  This capability can give ClaudeCode Agents (Jarvis) the appearance of 'watching' or 'waiting' for certain conditions to be met, and then subsequently activating pre-determined Workflows, Skills, Scripts, Commands, or Agents.




